Former CIA director
and retired
four star General David Petraeus,
who also served as commander of U.S.
Central Command,
which includes part of the Middle East.
Director Petraeus, thanks for joining us.
What's your assessment of the attack
by Iran?
Was this a genuine attempt
to retaliate,
to overwhelm Israel's
defenses, to cause mass damage,
or was this a show of force or Iran
by indicating
that they don't want
actually to escalate further?
Well, I don't believe so.
I think it was probably
a bit more of the latter than the former.
Clearly, it was unprecedented.
There never has been an attack
that came from Iranian soil.
And, of course,
these attacks also included
some of the proxies
in Iraq and Syria and southern Lebanon.
There's never been something
like this in the past,
but it seemed a little bit
less than what they might have thrown
if they were really serious.
In fact, it was probably a good bit less
than if they really wanted
to cause massive damage.
It struck me as a little bit
like that attack
the Iranians did after the U.S.
killed cousin Soleimani in Baghdad.
That time,
they telegraphed it well in advance
and again, no casualties out of that one
in this case at most.
It appears that there was one
Arab-Israeli girl
who was seriously injured
and may have died.
So there's a tiny bit of this Goldilocks
aspect to this,
I think, although, again,
a very significant attack.
Iran and Israel
been fighting this shadow war
in the Middle East for decades now.
This is the first time
that Iran has directly attacked Israel
from inside
Iranian territory,
not using proxies like Hamas or Hezbollah
or the Houthis.
Just how significant
a moment is this for the Middle East?
Well, it is significant.
It's a very big deal.
And I think
Israel will have to
take some action in response.
I think it's very clear that the U.S.
would like
to see that be as limited
as this possible.
Keep in mind that the real issue here,
in addition to Israel's
security, of course,
which is first and foremost,
but it's also about freedom of navigation
from the Gulf
for the oil and gas
that come from the Gulf and fuel
much of the global economy.
That's the biggest issue here.
And Iran,
I don't think,
wants to have that disrupted either
because they export
about 1.6
or 1.7 million barrels a day themselves.
So keep your eye on that.
Brant crude is already
above $90 a barrel,
and it would really spike
if there was something that interfered
with freedom of navigation.
In fact,
we need to figure out what's going on.
Iran did take a ship the other day
that they claimed was in some way
dealing with Israel.
But this
is another step up
the rung of escalation.
I think it's in the interests
of everyone
to stop the increasing escalation.
But we'll have to see
what Israel decides to do in this case.
President Biden
told Prime Minister Netanyahu
that the United States
will not participate
in any offensive strikes
by Israel against Iran.
How would you advise Israel
to respond to this?
How worried are you
that any responsible
only throws fuel on the fire
Well, that has to be a concern,
and I'm sure
they're conscious of that, Jake.
There's a whole
menu of actions that they can take,
not all of which are necessarily overt.
They can pursue covert, they can pursue
asymmetric attacks,
cyberspace and so forth.
And keep in mind that, of course,
Washington is meeting
with the other G7 countries to determine
what kind of diplomatic
and economic responses
should follow in a coordinated effort
as well.
Can't really take your eye off
Gaza, though.
At the end of the day,
Got to get those hostages back.
And I believe
still do need to destroy Hamas.
You don't send the
the fire department to extinguish.
80% of the fire
They still have work to do there.
All right.
General Petraeus, always good to see you.
Thank you so much for your insights.
Joining us now,
the former
director of national intelligence
under President Obama, a retired General,
James Clapper.
So, first of all, just the size
and scope of this,
we've never seen anything quite like this
in terms of Iran directly
launching attack on Israel.
So it does seem to mark
a change, an inflection
point of some sort. Yes.
Oh, no question, Jake. That
a Rubicon was
has been crossed here with
Iran directly attacking from Iranian
Iran proper to Israel proper.
That said, though,
the size of the attack,
I think was very measured.
It did not.
I think
the Iranians had to know
that it would not overwhelm
the coalition air defense system.
And then at the end of it, they declared
it was done without having
accomplished much in the way of damage.
So I think there was a messaging here.
But I still believe despite this
very profound event, that the Iranians
don't want a wider war,
as strange as that may seem.
But so explain to people at home
who think General
or they're saying, General Clapper,
how can you say
they don't want a wider war?
They just fired 300 attack drones.
And missiles at Israel.
But you think that the way they did
it is significant?
Well, I do, because first
they telegraphed it.
They sent slow moving drones out first,
which you had hours to to prepare for.
And the Iranians have a lot of missiles,
ballistic missiles and cruise missiles.
So if they had wanted to,
I believe they could have overwhelmed
the Israeli air defense system
and out of the coalition,
which was very important
you know, I guess
20% or so of the projectiles were
neutralized by U.S.
or other coalition elements.
So the whole way they went about this,
I think, was very deliberate,
very measured.
I don't think
they want a wider war.
Of course, now
it's all up to the Israelis
So the United States
does not have an embassy in Iran.
Iran doesn't have an embassy
in the United States.
You think that this information
about a week ago
maybe or maybe a little bit less,
the Biden administration
started announcing
or leaking to newspapers.
There's intelligence
that Iran is going to attack Israel.
You think it's possible
that Iran leaked that intentionally?
I think it's quite possible.
They may have conveyed it to us.
I think
they probably weren't all that careful
about masking their preparation.
The fact that
President Biden
came back from Delaware early,
convene the national security team.
All these things
tell me that we had good insight
into what the Iranians were going to do.
And so why do it?
So why would they do it?
Well, I think the Israelis have
the Iranians have their own domestic
political pressures.
They have
they have some very
there are some very hard liners now
surrounding the supreme leader
So I think
they have that
that constituency to placate.
And the fact that they showed the
parade or, if you will, of
solitary the parade in Tehran
of the joyful Iranians,
so happy about the attack.
And I think that's
what was important to the Iranians.
And I still believe
they don't want a wider war,
as incongruous as that may sound.
But their proxy is are doing things that
are not meant to be
eliminated.
Their proxies Hamas slaughtering
you know 1200 Israelis.
Hezbollah firing rockets
into the north of Israel.
So as you know,
tens of thousands of Israelis
can't even live in their homes.
The Houthis shutting down
coastal passages, I mean, ocean passages.
So that seems incongruous to it does.
And I think that
raises the question
of just how much control
Iran actually has over the over
the proxies there.
I think they have their own objectives
and
and they're going to try to fulfill them.
And in the case of particularly
in the case of Hezbollah.
Well, this is a great opportunity
for them
to weigh in and increase the attacks
from southern Lebanon
and into northern Israel.
So,
you know,
this is not a rosy picture
for Iran either. I'll put it that way.
All right.
Retired General
James Clapper, former
director of national intelligence,
thanks so much for being here.
Appreciate it.